# Major_Project
## Object Detection
Efficient and accurate object detection has been an important topic in the advancement of computer vision systems. With the advent of deep learning techniques, the accuracy for object detection has increased drastically. The project aims to incorporate state-of-the-art technique for object detection with the goal of achieving high accuracy with a real-time performance. A major challenge in many of the object detection systems is the dependency on other computer vision techniques for helping the deep learning-based approach, which leads to slow and non-optimal performance. In this project, we use a completely deep learning-based approach to solve the problem of object detection in an end-to-end fashion. The network is trained on the most challenging publicly available dataset (PASCAL VOC), on which an object detection challenge is conducted annually. The resulting system is fast and accurate, thus aiding those applications which require object detection. 

## Face Recoginition
Face recognition is an important application of Image processing owing to its use in many fields. The project presented here was developed after a study of various face recognition methods and their efficiencies. An effective and real-time face recognition system based on OpenCV and Python is developed in the project. The system was tested on YALE Face database B and ORL Face Database. The recognition produced using 3 different matching techniques are compared and the results have been presented. The correct recognition rate achieved using the Mahalanobis distance is 92.3% in comparison to the 73.1% for the normal PCA with euclidean distance. The system responds to the face recognition queries in less than 0.2 seconds.
